#How Designers Fail
##Wren Lanier

not talking about immediate personal failure- losing job, etc. 

controlled failure of ideas

ways designers fail when we think we're succeeding
when we focus to much on deliverables
fail to take iniative - always work if you want it

but to do great work, you have to do more than you're asked to do
no one will tell you
you have to own your design process. make it better on each project. don't stagnate and be passive.  follow best practices, new tools that'll work dev

been a ux des. in more than 10 years.  no one has asked her to make personas
used to think she was at a stupid place.  
wished she were somewhere where they cared about users... things we ought to be doing
realized, no one is going to send you an engraved invitation to do the work you want to do.  just do it. 
design is leadership... being the change in your organization that you want to see in stead of waiting for someone else to fix it. 
now she does personas when someone needs it. when working on a healthy team, there should never be any objection to doing things a better way. 

one of her teams weaknesses - they're not much for process.  don't like agile, no stories with points. they hate meeitngs.  every week they agree what to work on and then they work on it. 

common ways to fail.. going around with a crappy process.  

take initiative to practice ux because  you're a designer and that's your job.

list of things i wish i did as part of design process. 
1. more user testing
2. better understanding of users.
3. 

include learning in every project. make learning a part of your projects. 

moved on after a design. at a bank
additional $10m in revenue annually from her design

think of designs as experiments.
do design experiments


if you're always learning, you'll always making progress

reduce risk of failure by focusing on learning

Daily, one thing you learned every day!! do it. doo itiititit
think about your work in progress and think about one thing you can learn about your userrs, your own process, about next thing you can ship. 

final way we fail - 
fail to share ux with ppl around us.
fail at evangelism at our craft. 
UX evangelism is a long play.. doens't exactly play off. 
how we empower others a responsibility of the entire team - instead of hero designer
evangelism - 
design teams to show their work. be more transparent with work in progress where everyone can see it (benefits of slack)
sharing work before pixel perfect, getting better designs, 
dev input on designs early can make biggest difference on final output. rather than here are the exact specifications. 
take yourself down off hero designer and put conversation at center of process. 
when pull in other people. you will meet resistance. a lot is indifference. ppl not caring, 
hero designer doesn't exist b/c crazy ego maniacs. ppl like hero designers bc/ no one else has responsibility.  but not easier as designers.  

strongest resistance from inside than from team.

this is good for Cooper and designers. 

giving up control can be very difficult.

"sharing our toys is hard"
for successful companies, ux needs to be part of everything we do.  a mindset that includes everybody. 
embracing this mindset is imp way to help us and clients succeed.

one thing to share outside of team: to be more aware of what we're working on. 

involve more people in your design and process. 

https://medium.com/the-year-of-the-looking-glass/junior-designers-vs-senior-designers-fbe483d3b51e
@heywren


